Codellama (#1419)
huggingface/blog: codellama.md

---
title: "Llama 2 learns to code" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/160_codellama/thumbnail.jpg
authors:
- user: philschmid
- user: osanseviero
- user: pcuenq
- user: lewtun
- user: lvwerra
- user: loubnabnl
- user: ArthurZ
- user: joaogante
---

# Llama 2  learns to code

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

> Today we are exci## Introduction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Introduction
```

Code Llama is a family of state-of-the-art open-access code-specialized versions of Metas [Llama 2](https://huggingface.co/blog/llama2) released by Meta, and we’re excited to release integration in the Hugging Face ecosystem! Code Llama is being released with the same permissive community license and is available for commercial use.

Today, we’re excited to release:

- Models on the Hub with their model cards and license
- Code benchmarking
- Transformers integration
- Integration with Text Generation Inference for fast and efficient production-ready inference
- Integration with Inference Endpoints

Code LLMs are an exciting development for software engineers because they can boost productivity through code completion in IDEs, take care of repetitive or annoying tasks like writing docstring, or create unit tests. 

> * [What’s Code Llama?](#whats-code-llama)

Reviewer: Would maybe add sub-sections too as in https://huggingface.co/blog/llama2#table-of-contents

> 
> * [What’s Code Llama?](#whats-code-llama)
> * [How to use Code Llama?](#how-to-use-code-llama)
> * [Evaluation](#evaluation)
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

## Table of Contents

* [What’s Code Llama?](#whats-code-llama)
* [How to use Code Llama?](#how-to-use-code-llama)
* [Evaluation](#evaluation)

```

All models were initially trained with 500 billion tokens on a near-deduplicated dataset of publicly available. The dataset also contains some natural language datasets, such as discussions about code and code snippets. Unfortunately, there is not more information about the dataset. 

For the instruction model, they used two datasets: the instruction tuning dataset collected for Llama 2 Chat and a self-instruct dataset. The self-instruct dataset was created by using Llama 2 to create interview programming questions and then using Code Llama to generate unit tests and solutions, which are later evaluated by executing the tests.

## How to use Code Llama?

> Codellama is available in the Hugging Face ecosystem, starting with `transformers` version 4.33. Until `transformers` 4.33 is released, please install it from the main branch.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Code Llama is available in the Hugging Face ecosystem, starting with `transformers` version 4.33. Until `transformers` 4.33 is released, please install it from the main branch.
```

### Demo

You can easily try the Code Llama Model (7 billion parameters!) in **[this Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/codellama/codellama-playground)** or in the playground embedded below:

```
<script type="module" src="https://gradio.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/3.28.3/gradio.js"> </script>
<gradio-app theme_mode="light" space="codellama/codellama-playground"></gradio-app>
```

Under the hood, this playground uses Hugging Face's [Text Generation Inference](https://github.com/huggingface/text-generation-inference), the same technology that powers [HuggingChat](https://huggingface.co/chat/), and we'll share more in the following sections.

### Transformers

With the upcoming release of `transformers` 4.33, you can use Code Llama and leverage all the tools within the HF ecosystem, such as:

- training and inference scripts and examples
- safe file format (`safetensors`)
- integrations with tools such as `bitsandbytes`  (4-bit quantization) and PEFT (parameter efficient fine-tuning)
- utilities and helpers to run generation with the model
- mechanisms to export the models to deploy

Until `transformers` 4.33 is released, please install it from the main branch.

> ```python

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```bash
```

| WizardCoder-15B        | BigCode-OpenRail-M | ❌             | ✅               | 1,035B                      | 58.12  | 41.91      | 32.07                 |
| OctoCoder-15B          | BigCode-OpenRail-M | ✅             | ✅               | 1,000B                      | 45.3   | 32.8       | 24.01                 |
| CodeGeeX-2-6B          | CodeGeeX License   | ❌             | ❌               | 2,000B                      | 33.49  | 29.9       | 21.23                 |
| CodeGen-2.5-7B-Mono    | Apache-2.0         | ✅             | ✅               | 1400B                       | 45.65  | 23.22      | 12.1                  |
| CodeGen-2.5-7B-Multi   | Apache-2.0         | ✅             | ✅               | 1400B                       | 28.7   | 26.27      | 20.04                 |

**Note:** The scores presented in the table above are sourced from our code leaderboard, where we evaluate all models with the same settings. For more details, please refer to the [leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/bigcode/multilingual-code-evals).

## Additional Resources

> - [Models on the hub](https://huggingface.co/codellama)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Models on the Hub](https://huggingface.co/codellama)
```

- utilities and helpers to run generation with the model
- mechanisms to export the models to deploy

Until `transformers` 4.33 is released, please install it from the main branch.

```bash
!pip install git+https://github.com/huggingface/transformers.git@main accelerate
```

#### Code Completion

The 7B and 13B models can be used for text/code completion or infilling. The following code snippet uses the `pipeline` interface to demonstrate text completion. It runs on the free tier of Colab, as long as you select a GPU runtime.

```python
from transformers import AutoTokenizer
import transformers
import torch

tokenizer = AutoTokenizer.from_pretrained("codellama/CodeLlama-7b-hf")
pipeline = transformers.pipeline(
    "text-generation",
    model="codellama/CodeLlama-7b-hf",
    torch_dtype=torch.float16,
    device_map="auto",
)

sequences = pipeline(
    'def fibonacci(',
    do_sample=True,
    temperature=0.2,
    top_p=0.9,
    num_return_sequences=1,
    eos_token_id=tokenizer.eos_token_id,
    max_length=100,
)
for seq in sequences:
    print(f"Result: {seq['generated_text']}")
```

This may produce output like the following:

> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```python
```

---
title: "Llama 2 learns to code" 
thumbnail: /blog/assets/160_codellama/thumbnail.jpg
authors:
- user: philschmid
- user: osanseviero
- user: pcuenq
- user: lewtun
- user: lvwerra
- user: loubnabnl
- user: ArthurZ
- user: joaogante
---

# Llama 2  learns to code

<!-- {blog_metadata} -->
<!-- {authors} -->

## Introduction

> Code Llama is a family of state-of-the-art open-access code-specialized versions of [Llama 2](https://huggingface.co/blog/llama2) released by Meta, and we’re excited to release integration in the Hugging Face ecosystem! Code Llama is being released with the same permissive community license as Llama 2 and is available for commercial use.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Code Llama is a family of state-of-the-art, open-access versions of [Llama 2](https://huggingface.co/blog/llama2) specialized on code tasks, and we’re excited to release integration in the Hugging Face ecosystem! Code Llama is being released with the same permissive community license as Llama 2 and is available for commercial use.
```

The first sentence was a bit long imo

Today, we’re excited to release:

- Models on the Hub with their model cards and license

> - Code benchmarking
> - Transformers integration
> - Integration with Text Generation Inference for fast and efficient production-ready inference
> - Integration with Inference Endpoints

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Transformers integration
- Integration with Text Generation Inference for fast and efficient production-ready inference
- Integration with Inference Endpoints
- Code benchmarks
```

(nit: to reflect the same order as the sections)

Code LLMs are an exciting development for software engineers because they can boost productivity through code completion in IDEs, take care of repetitive or annoying tasks like writing docstrings, or create unit tests. 

## Table of Contents

  - [Introduction](#introduction)
  - [Table of Contents](#table-of-contents)
  - [What’s Code Llama?](#whats-code-llama)
  - [How to use Code Llama?](#how-to-use-code-llama)
    - [Demo](#demo)
    - [Transformers](#transformers)
      - [Code Completion](#code-completion)
      - [Code Infilling](#code-infilling)
      - [Conversational Instructions](#conversational-instructions)
      - [4-bit Loading](#4-bit-loading)
    - [Using text-generation-inference and Inference Endpoints](#using-text-generation-inference-and-inference-endpoints)
  - [Evaluation](#evaluation)
  - [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)

## What’s Code Llama?

> The Code Llama release introduces a family of models of 7, 13, and 34 billion parameters. The base models are initialized from Llama 2 and then trained on 500 billion tokens of code data. Meta fine-tuned those base models for two different flavors: a Python specialist (100 billion tokens) and an instruction fine-tuned version, which can understand natural language instructions. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Code Llama release introduces a family of models of 7, 13, and 34 billion parameters. The base models are initialized from Llama 2 and then trained on 500 billion tokens of code data. Meta fine-tuned those base models for two different flavors: a Python specialist (100 billion additional tokens) and an instruction fine-tuned version, which can understand natural language instructions. 
```

> The models have state-of-the-art metrics in Python, C++, Java, PHP, C#, TypeScript, and Bash. The 7B and 13B base and instruct variants support infilling based on surrounding content, making them ideal for use as code assistants.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The models show state-of-the-art performance in Python, C++, Java, PHP, C#, TypeScript, and Bash. The 7B and 13B base and instruct variants support infilling based on surrounding content, making them ideal for use as code assistants.
```

![Training Process](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/160_codellama/training-process.jpg "Training Process")

All models were initially trained with 500 billion tokens on a near-deduplicated dataset of publicly available code. The dataset also contains some natural language datasets, such as discussions about code and code snippets. Unfortunately, there is not more information about the dataset.

For the instruction model, they used two datasets: the instruction tuning dataset collected for Llama 2 Chat and a self-instruct dataset. The self-instruct dataset was created by using Llama 2 to create interview programming questions and then using Code Llama to generate unit tests and solutions, which are later evaluated by executing the tests.

## How to use Code Llama?

Code Llama is available in the Hugging Face ecosystem, starting with `transformers` version 4.33. Until `transformers` 4.33 is released, please install it from the main branch.

### Demo

You can easily try the Code Llama Model (13 billion parameters!) in **[this Space](https://huggingface.co/spaces/codellama/codellama-playground)** or in the playground embedded below:

> ```
> <script type="module" src="https://gradio.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/3.28.3/gradio.js"> </script>
> <gradio-app theme_mode="light" space="codellama/codellama-playground"></gradio-app>
> ```

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
<script type="module" src="https://gradio.s3-us-west-2.amazonaws.com/3.28.3/gradio.js"> </script>
<gradio-app theme_mode="light" space="codellama/codellama-playground"></gradio-app>
```
